Welcome to building a full-stack
AI-powered app with Next.js.
I'm your instructor, Scott Moss.
A little bit about me, I've been
an engineer for over a decade now,
working on all different types
of technologies and projects.
My last stint as an engineer was
at a company called Netflix,
you might have heard about it,
where I worked on all different types of
things there, pretty interesting stuff.
And I say that because I no longer
am a professional engineer.
I don't write code for a living anymore.
I'm actually an investor now, where I
actually invest in some of the exciting
technology companies that
are coming out today.
So I spend a lot of my time doing that.
But it has enabled me to write code for
fun now,
which is actually just
been more enlightning.
And I feel like it's gotten me past
this plateau which I thought I was at,
because I only get to
work on exciting stuff.
So I don't have to worry
about scaling issues.
I just get to work on cool stuff that
comes out every day, so to me that's fun.
And yeah, in this course, I wanted to just
give a little insight into the window
of how I build full-stack applications
using some of my favorite technologies.
I have a lot of opinions
on how to do things.
If you've ever taken any of my courses,
you know that I can be very random,
but also at the same time have some type
of path that I'm moving towards, too.
So yeah, I thought it'd be really cool for
us just to build something together and
collaborate that way, and just have that
moment where we learn from each other and
build something cool.
So this course, if you've taken any of
the intro courses, those courses are,
obviously, just a little slower
intentionally to just get you
the foundational skills that you
need to know, and there's notes and
stuff associated with it.
This course you're just gonna be following
along with me as we build something and
we'll just be referencing Docs as we go
because those are the best notes when
you're building something, so.
But I'll take my time,
I won't move too fast.
If there's commands that you all need,
I'll take my time,
you can look at those commands.
And then also for your reference,
I already pushed up the finished app code
to my GitHub in which you can check out.
Here's my URL, so my URL, my GitHub
handle is Hendrixer, named after my son,
his name is Hendricks.
And yeah, it's just fullstack-ai-nextjs,
you can check it out.
The complete app is there.
So as you're following along,
please reference this for
any of the code that we'll be writing.
I will probably be referencing
it as I move along, just so
I can stay consistent with what's here.
So I'm not teaching you something
completely different than what I already
pushed up, because as you know,
I don't remember a lot of stuff,
I just do it again.
So sometimes it's slightly different, but
I will be referencing this as well, so
you should also do that if you feel lost.
But it's gonna be fun.
We're just gonna move.
You can think of this as like
a pair programming exercise.
We're all just gonna pair program
together and it's gonna be cool,
I'm really pumped about it.
Any questions so far?
Okay, well let me give you the demo of
the app that we're gonna be making so
you kind of know what we're aiming for,
and then we'll just jump right in and
try to make it.
So the app we're going to be making
is a journal app called mood.
And mood is basically, it's an app where
you can write your journal entries.
And then using AI,
what it'll do is it will basically try
to determine what the mood of
your journal entry is, and
try to give you a sentiment
analysis on what you were feeling,
what you were saying,
how you felt that day.
Was it negative?
Was it positive?
It'll try to do all of that.
And we're gonna leverage
AI to make that happen.
And that way, you kinda have all
these journal entries where you can
kinda go back and say,
how did I feel last week?
Or what was my day like yesterday?
Or what was my month like?
Was I in a bad mood this month?
And it's quite powerful.
So if you asking yourself, I don't
know how to do anything AI related,
that's fine.
You don't need to know anything about AI.
Everything you need to know we're
gonna cover in this course.
But if you know how to use an API, then
you already know everything you need to
know [LAUGH] cuz that's all we're
gonna be doing is using an API.
But we will dive deep into that a little
more, there's a lot there to unpack, but
yeah, you're gonna be building that.
So basically here it is,
here's your landing page.
It's got award-winning copy on it.
And then you click Get Started,
and you can sign in.
So I can sign in with Google here.
Once you sign in,
you are introduced to this dashboard here
where you have some journal entries.
It looks like I already have an entry
that I made, so If I click on this entry,
you can see a few things here.
So you get this text editor here
where you can write some entries.
So this one, actually,
I had ChatGPT generate this entry, so
I made it intentional.
[LAUGH] I asked, I was like,
can you write an entry of someone
who had a really down bad day?
And that's what it wrote [LAUGH], so
if you're reading this like, wow,
Scott, are you okay?
No, I didn't write this.
ChatGPT did, okay?
But as you can see, the analysis that
we got back from this post was that it
determined the subject, so the subject was
a series of unfortunate events [LAUGH].
That's the actual subject.
>> Lemony Snicket?
>> Yeah, Lemony Snicket is
the series of unfortunate events.
You know what, now that I'm seeing
all the letters capitalized,
I think it thinks it is that.
That's kind of crazy, cuz why else would
it capitalize the letters like that,
like it's a title or something?
That actually makes sense.
And then the mood is defeated.
So it's, [LAUGH] the person who
wrote this is in a defeated mood.
And then, is it negative?
Yes, it is negative, it's true.
And then also, it generates
this color based off the mood.
So if your mood is brighter,
this color will change.
So I'll just give you an example.
I'm just gonna go ahead and
get rid of this and be like,
today was the best day ever, right?
And then what it'll do is it'll auto-save.
Actually, I think it's gonna break,
because I didn't start at the database
actually, let me do that.
So it'll auto-save, no, I did, never mind.
There we go.
So it autosaves, and
you can see the color change to green
based off you're in a happier mood.
And now the subject is the best day ever,
and the mood is happy, and
it is no longer negative, right?
So we're gonna build all that, so then you
can go back and track all your journal
entries and kind of just see how your
mood was, as long as you like to journal.
And then the other thing that you'll
be making is this history right here,
this history plot.
So this is basically,
we're gonna be using AI to determine your
sentiment of all the journal
entries that you have,
and we're gonna score them based
off on a scale from -10 to 10.
-10 being you're just so
down bad, 10 being you are so
happy you're probably flying and
then 0 being neutral.
So we're gonna plot those journals so you
can see how your mood changes over time.
So you can see this is the first
entry you wrote, it was terrible.
The next entry you wrote
was very positive.
And then you kind of neutraled
out on the next one,
a little more content on the next one.
And then the last one we just wrote was
terrible, this is when our cat left us.
So we'll be doing that, and
then you get an average sentiment up here.
So on average, all the journal
entries that I've written is a 0.1, so
it's slightly above neutral.
So I'm just a very neutral
person right here.
So 10 being excited,
anything negative is pretty bad.
That's the second AI
thing we'll be making,
we'll also be making another
one here in the journal.
So we want to be able to ask questions
about our journal entries just to
get some feedback.
So you can ask a question and
you will be able to, yeah,
get some feedback on any of this stuff.
So I can ask like, how has my
mood been in the last week or so?
And I can ask this question here.
It'll load, and
what it's doing in the background,
it's trying to grab all
the necessary context and
match it with the question that I have and
then come up with an appropriate answer.
So it always says something silly, so
I'm curious to see what it says this time.
Okay, so based on that context,
today was terrible due to finding
out about your cat's infidelity.
>> [LAUGH]
>> It can be [LAUGH] inferred that your
mood has likely been negatively
impacted in the last week or so
with a particularly bad day today.
However, the previous
inference about a positive and
upbeat mood before yesterday still stands.
So you can ask pretty much whatever
question you want about any of
your entries.
So we'll be making all of that today and
then we'll get to testing and
then deployment.